# ArchiScribe MCP Server - Requirements

## Functional Requirements

The purpose of ArchiScribe MCP is to provide a means of retrieving contextual information from ArchiMate architecture models. 
This includes the ability to query, and retrieve information about the elements and views.

The data source for this information will be a configured architecture model file. This model file will be in the ArchiMate Exchange Format, which is an open XML-based format for representing ArchiMate models.

The following tools will be available in the MCP Server:
- **Search View Names**: Retrieve a list of all view names in the model that contain an optional keyword.
    - the views can be optionally filtered based on a configurable property name on the views
- **Get View Details**: Retrieve detailed information about a specific view, including its elements and relationships.

The content will be returned in markdown format.

The following files will be used as examples:
- 'src/data/archimate-scribe-demo-model.xml', this file contains a sample ArchiMate model in the ArchiMate Exchange Format.
- 'src/data/archiscribe-Dataflow-view.md', this file contains an example of the markdown format for the DataFlow view.

## Technical Requirements

- The MCP Server will be implemented using TypeScript and node.js.
- The MCP Typescript SDK will be used for development.
  - SDK documentation here: https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk
  - NPM package here: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@modelcontextprotocol/sdk
- Implement the project in the 'src' directory.
- Use the example files in the 'src/data' directory for testing and demonstration purposes.
- Config settings will include:
    - Path or URL to the ArchiMate model file.
    - Enable/disable filtering the views - "viewsFilterByProperty" - true/false
    - Property name to filter views - "viewsFilterPropertyName", default to 'AI-Context'
    - Server port number - "serverPort", default to 8080
- create well structured testable code